---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Greetings"
date: 2015-01-25 20:51:49 -0600
comments: true
categories: 
---

Hello!
This is my blog for the Software Engineering [class](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/cs371p/) at UT Austin.
To clarify the ambiguous title, the class is revolved around Python.
The project for the class will be to build a sizable website using Django, MySQL, and others.
The main goal of the class, however, is to distill good software engineering practices into the students.

I think that's quite a unique ambition.
Most traditional Computer Science courses tend to teach concepts deeply rooted in history.
Operating Systems, Theory of Computation, Computer Graphics.
These courses are considered essential to Computer Science and I've taken, and enjoyed, many of them.
In modern days, however, the need for these courses are slowly diminishing.
It's hard to walk even a few feet in a Career Fair before being assaulted by buzzwords such as Node.js, Ruby On Rails, Angular, and Bootstrap. 
Furthermore, it is rare to find recruiters asking about experience in compilers or operating systems.

By no means, however, am I dissuading anyone from learning about these new technologies.
In fact, I enjoy them thoroughly. When I first learned of Ruby, I tried to do
nearly everything in Ruby, from Competitive Programming to [Graphics](https://github.com/jashkenas/ruby-processing).
I take pleasure in learning obscure programming languages, such as APL.
I've tried Lisp, Haskell, Scala, Smalltalk, D, and Rust among dozens of others.
I browse /r/programming and Hacker News habitually, constantly looking for new and promising frameworks.
Throughout these endeavors, I never seek to "master" a language or a framework.
Rather, I simply enjoy trying alternatives to the methods I already use and trust.

Anyways, back on topic.
The professor teaching the class, [Glenn Downing](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/), is a bit of a celebrity amongst my group of friends.
Last semester, we all took Object Oriented Programming, another class taught by Downing, and enjoyed it thoroughly.
By the end of the term, we were all fervent fans of Professor Downing, calling him the Master of C++.
Downing has a bit of a unique teaching style, which encourages active learning.
He forbids skipping class and calls on students in class to ensure that we're alert.
Although it was a bit jarring at first, his teaching style is among the best I've seen so far.

The material he teaches is unique, as mentioned before. Other universities
rarely have an "Object Oriented Programming" course, and if they do, it's likely
to be filled with tiresome terminology and outdated concepts.
These courses are no doubt modern in design.
They embrace topics that are useful in day-to-day development and strive to keep up with current frameworks.
However, they are also unadorned.
They focus on the heart of the material, rather than being concerned with detail.
It is daunting to begin programming.
Immediately, you are surrounded by passionate individuals all preaching their favorite editor, language, and framework.

